======
V3.2.0
======

The major changes in the FEHM application from V3.1 to this release V3.2, are
improvements to geothermal, CO2, and stress capabilities.
All changes are described in detail in release notes and Appendix documents
posted on fehm.lanl.gov web page. Enhancements to this FEHM release include:

* Additional stress models have been added, including stess permeability for shear-stimulated fractures and settings for incremental shear for porosity damage.

* Enhanced functionality for C02 problems have been added. The User Manual documentation has been updated for both "carb" and "grad". Output for macro "rlpm" has been generalized to include both co2 gas /water and co2 liquid /water output.

* For mass, energy balances in porous media, "anpe" (anisotropic permeability) has been modified to work with dual or dpdp or gdpm or gdkm for the isothermal case. The macro "anpe" works with "trac" for transport and "gdkm" works with isothermal and thermal.

* The macro "trxn" is a new macro, which does not add functionality but is a user-friendly interface to "trac" and "rxn".

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. code::

  Release Notes for Version 3.2.0  Aug 20 2012 to Jul 11 2013 
  
  Executables notes:
  Linux (64-bit): fehm_v3.2.0lin.11Jul13 compiled with gfortran 4.5.1
  MAC: fehm_v3.2.0mac.11Jul13 compiled with gfortran 4.8.1
  PC Windows (32-bit): FEHM_V3.2.0w32.11Jul13.exe compiled with Intel Parallel Studio XE 2011
  PC Windows (64-bit): FEHM_V3.2.0w64.11Jul13.exe compiled with Intel Parallel Studio XE 2011
  
  New Release FEHM OPEN V3.2.0 in directory VERS_3.2.0_013_0711 
  The major changes are: Fix to CO2 capabilities, Updates to stress model, Updates to GDKM
  
  Summary of FEHM V3.2 Application Changes
  
  The major changes in the FEHM application from V3.1 to this release V3.2, are
  improvements to geothermal, CO2, and stress capabilities. All changes are
  described in detail in release notes and Appendix documents posted on the
  fehm.lanl.gov web page. Enhancements to this FEHM release include:
  
  Additional stress models have been added, including stress permeability for
  shear-stimulated fractures and settings for incremental shear for porosity
  damage.
  
  Enhanced functionality for C02 problems have been added. The User Manual
  documentation has been updated for both "carb" and "grad". Output for macro
  "rlpm" has been generalized to include both co2 gas/water and co2 liquid/water.
  
  For mass, energy balances in porous media, "anpe" (anisotropic permeability)
  has been modified to work with dual or dpdp or gdpm or gdkm for the isothermal
  case. The macro "anpe" works with "trac" for transport and "gdkm" works with
  isothermal and thermal.
  
  The macro "trxn" is a new macro, which does not add functionality but is a
  user-friendly interface to "trac" and "rxn".
  
  
  Summary of FEHM V3.2 Test Suite Additions
  
  The V&V Test Suite for V3.2 has the same test problems as releases V2.26 (for
  YMP QA) and V3.1 (April 2012). New test problems have been added to the test
  suite. After confirming successful tests on each operating system, a
  compressed archive file is created for each operating system; VERIFICATION_V3.2lnx.tar.gz, VERIFICATION_V3.2mac.tar.gz, and VERIFICATION_V3.2win.zip.
  
  
  The following is a partial list of the added tests (and associated test name): 
  
  Tests for macro co2 with co2pres, co2flow, and co2frac (co2test)
  Test the macro evap (evaporation)
  Test macros ngas and trac (wvtest)
  Tests for infiltration using the ecm and dpm models with Richard’s equation
  (infiltration*)
  Test new concentration dependent density formulation (cden_test)
  Test concentration flux output option (cflxz_test)
  Test a new stress permeability model (stress_prem)
  Tests using the rlpm macro instead of the rlp macro, using both equation and
  table input.
  Tests using trxn format input in place of the trac and rxn macros.
  
  
  Developer Notes  9/27/2012 to 7/11/2013 -----------------------------  
  
  06/24-07/11/2013:
  Fixed GDKM problems and modified routines for improvement:
  
  area_length_calc.f - modified to make gdkm and anpe work, corrected routine so that cell dimensions are calculated for only the total gridblock dimensions in dpdp problems - not the primary and secondary volumes.
  incoord.f - modified to allow different ordering to 3D tets (variable ich_pebi)
  setparams.f - initialized  new variable ich_pebi
  comai.f  - added ich_pebi and other new variables 
  gncf3.f - added code to correct ordering for 3D tets if necessary(see variable ich_pebi)
  diskread.f- set some secondary stress variables to zero if primary stress variables are readi in
  ther_co2_h2o.f - changed (only) where some variables are declared. Now more are declared in comco2.f
  icectrco2.f - changed (only) where some variables are declared. Now more are declared in comco2.f 
  h2o_properties.f - changed (only) where some variables are declared. Now more are declared in comco2.f 
  wellphysicsctr.f - changed (only) where some variables are declared. Now more are declared in comco2.f
  commeth.f - changed (only) where some variables are declared. Now more are declared in comco2.f
  diagnostics.f - minor changes for identifying Nans
  
  input.f - added capability for removing negative coefficients (macro zneg)
  varchk.f - commented out ieos = 1 about line 587 (co2 tests passed!)
  inpres.f - minor changes taht will be used in next version of co2 module.
  structured.f - added 1 comment line
  
  releasemem.f - release memory for new variable nvar_select() (will be used in next co2 version)
  david.f - added declaration for variables nvar_select(:) and max_variables
  
  allocmem.f - added allocation for variables nvar_select(:)
  scanin.f - set vatiable icoef_neg = 0
  setord.f - added option for another variable ordering
  switch.f - allowed possibility if move equation ordering
  switchb.f - allowed possibility if move equation ordering
  
  mdnodes.f - minor correction to zero indexing (still ran in release mode)
  gensco2h2o.f - minor addition thatwill be useful in next co2 version
  comco2.f - moved many local co2-related variables to this module
  startup.f - changed calling sequence for area_length_calc.f and some code related to equation ordering
  coeff_management.f - sets to zero all area coefficients that are generated or read in a stor file. This capability should be used with caution but is helpful in determining if negative area coefficients are causing stability issues.
  
  gdkm_calc.f - corrected an array out of bounds (from i4 = nelm(kb) to i4 = nelm(kb+1), line 140)
  
  thrair.f - added a new constant pressure condition that controls saturation by adding or taking out gas. Useful in 2 phase gas injection problems
  
  airctr.f - changed the calculation of initial density so that the denisity is calculated correctly for concentration dependent density when a tracer restart file is present
  
  05/08/2013:
  Modified mdnodes.f
  Minor bug fix for array out of bound.
  
  04/03-10/2013:
  Modified diskread.f diskwrite_new.f
  Added ability to read and write porosity to restart file 
  Corrected allocation of stress variables for reading
  
  Modified fehmn.f, iofile.f, and added new routine write_copyright.f90 for output copyright disclosure statement (output to terminal and in output file).
  
  Modified inhist.f to fix  an error where the wrong unit number was being used for some output.
  
  03/20/2013: 
  Add stress permeability model 24
  
  Summary of source code changes:
   
  1. comsif.f
  Change: allocate new integer ipermstr24.
  Purpose: indicates whether stress perm model 24 applies to a particular node.
   
  2. stress_perm.f
  Change: add call for stressperm_24.
  Purpose: applies the stress perm model when called.
   
  3. stressperm_allocate.f
  Change: save initial values for permeability. Already implemented for models 2, 6, 21, 
  22, 31 - extended to 24.
  Purpose: new stress perm model formulated in terms of a multplier applied to initial pe
  rmeability.
   
  4. stress_uncoupled.f
  Change: save initial pore pressure in str_pf0_perm. 
  Purpose: for later calculation, permeability as a function of pressure change.
   
  5. stressctr.f
  Change: reads in parameters associated with stress perm model 24.
  Purpose: for later use when doing calculations with stress perm model 24.
   
  6. stressperm_24.f  *new file*
  Contains routines for calculating permeability multipliers as a function of in situ str
  ess assuming a ubiquitously fractured media.
  Steps:
  i.  Allocate initial values 
  ii. Generate N (input parameter) fractures with a uniform distribution of orientations (subroutine stressperm_24_spiral)
  iii.    For each of the N fractures...
  a.  Construct local coordinate system in frame of fracture. z-prime is fracture normal, x-prime aligned with shear stress (subroutine stressperm_24_local)
  b.  Transform global stress state into local frame (subroutine stressperm_24_rotate)
  c.  Calculate elastic change in fracture aperture using Bai et al. model (subroutine stressperm_24_prefailure)
  d.  Assess if frictional failure (Mohr-Coulomb) of fracture occurs (subroutine stressperm_24_failure)
  e.  If failure, calculate permeability increase along fracture using Lee and Cho (2002) empirical curves (subroutine stressperm_24_postfailure)
  f.  Transform modified fracture permeability back to global frame, add to total (subroutine stressperm_24_perm)
  iv. Calculate overall permeability modifier as ensemble average of all fractures, apply to initial permeability.
  
  01/31/2013 - 02/011/2013: 
  
  Fixed a minor bug in write_avs_node_mat.f, add missing 
  specific heat value which didn't get write out for avsx mat_node file.
  
  
  12/20/2012:
  
  Updated with Stress model changes and RTD mixing model changes,
  passed stress test (fracture_aperture). 
  
  
  bnswer.f
  a. moved permeability updating from 'fehmn' to bnswer
  b. changed the flags for choosing nodal vs edge updating of 
     permeability as a funciton of stress
  
  compute_flow_residual.f
  a. minor changes to variable names
  b. include 'recoumpte_stress' in the call to compute_permfactor
  
  compute_permfactor_effstrs.f
  changed to using properties of the model assigned to the current node 
  instead of that asigned to node '1'
  
  compute_permfactor_effstrs_pp.f
  a. minor changes to variable names
  b. changed the definition of 'average' pore pressure between nodes
  
  compute_permfactor.f
  passign 'recompute_stress' thru the parameter list instead of computing 
    it within the subroutine
  
  compute_permfactor_vonMises.f
  a. use permmodel 100 instead 22
  b. use only spm1f(1) = perx_m in computing permFactor
  c. print mean_accum_pstrain, fac,norm_per,perm_fac to 'iout'
  
  comsi.f
  a. created a new flag for using incremental shear in permmodel-22
  b. created a new flag for  permmodel-23
  c. declare arrays for increamental shear in permmodel22
  
  fehmn.f
  a. added updating of converged strain when using 'fem' option
  b. moved to bnswer permeability updates related to stress
  
  geneq_stress_fem_3D.f
  minor changes to variable names
  
  gensl_stress_coupled_3D.f
  changed call to geneq_flowflux_perm() instead of geneq_flow_coupled()
  
  stressctr.f
  a. modified arrangement of conditional statements for ihms = -15, 16 and 17
  b. changed allocation of array itemp_term22
  c. modified input for permmodel=22 to allow use increamenatl shear
  d. modified input for permmodel=22 to allow porosity damage
  e. for young's modulus as a funciton of temperature, if using table entry
     make the first line of the input file optional
  f. for 'plastic' case, forcing the use of a single model for whole domain
  
  stressperm_22.f
  c. modified permmodel=22 to allow use increamenatl shear
  d. modified permmodel=22 to allow porosity damage
  
  stressperm_2.f
  If strx_min <or= 0 model is interpreted to be that for local failure 
    driven by pore pressure only.
  
  stress_perm.f
  added call for permmodel = 23 that uses Stuart Walsh model of aperture
  
  stress_uncoupled.f
  save initial stresses if they need to be zerod out in stressperm_22
  
  update_permfactors.f
  a. minor variable name changes
  b. added a flag for plasticity-coupled with permeability
  c. changed call to compute_permfactor to pass 'recompute_stress'
     flag
  d. call compute_permfactor_vonMises for both vonMises and Drucker-Prager 
  
  write_avs_head_s.f
  optional output for excess shear and young's modulus
  
  write_avs_node_s.f
  optional output for excess shear and young's modulus
  
  flow_flux_perm_residual.f
  new routine, replaces compute_flow_residual. changed definition of residual
  
  geneq_flowflux_perm.f
  new routine, replaces the routine geneq_flow_coupled. calling 
    flow_flux_perm_residual instead of compute_flow_residual. made 
    modifications to  'a' matrix 
    cumulative
  
  stressperm_23.f
  new routine,  Stuart Walsh model of aperture
  
  gen_mixmodel.f
  rtd mixing model update
  
  subdivide_rtd.f
  rtd mixing model update
  
  
  
  11/06/2012:
  Following new changes are incorporated:
  
  7 routines to fix CO2 capabilities --
  check_rlp.f :       added a more descriptive header to the 'rlp' output file 
  vcap-ek.f:          commented out the last few lines, which were erroneously forcing cp=0 at sl=0
  rlperm_co2.f:       fixed bug in model 19,which did not handle the 'co2 is gas' case correctly.
  check_rlp_carb.f:   generalized tabular output for rlps to include both co2 gas /water and co2 liquid /water output.  
              Improved tecplot column headings.
  inrlp.f:        fixed a bug in loading the array 'cap_type'
  brooks_corey_cap.f: added a few comment lines to better describe the code
  rlp_cap.f:          corrected logic for the water/co2-gas case, so that rl_l will be correctly calculated
  
  2 routines to fix zone definition issue:
  Allocmem.f and zone.f: bug fixed so the code works with large zone numbers
  
  
  10/22/2012:
  FEHM_V3.1.1w64_largeMemory.22Oct12.exe is compiled for using with large memory problems
  
  09/27/2012:
  Executable has following known issues:
  1) not passing stress test (fracture_aperture in test suites)
  2) Two new GDKM code changes not incorporated (causing GDPM break)
     (gdkm_calc.f, area_length_calc.f) 
  
  Linux executable on Conejo (intel compiler vertsion 11.1.072, 64-bit) is at following link:
  /usr/projects/yfwater/spchu/fehm_bin/xfehm_v3.1intel64.12Oct12
  
  
  End Developer Notes 9/27/2012 to 7/11/2013 -------------------------------
  
  hg/trac changesets by date -----------------------------------------------
  
  Use trac/ Browse Source / fehm_open / Revision Log (full messages) 
  Use trac/ Timeline for one line changesets listed by date
  This Code Release has TAG V3.2.0 
  
  ------------------------------------------
  07/16/13
      
  @566:e5118aba3213   3 hours spchu   
  Added tag Release V3.2.0 for changeset 6e77d57423b6
      
  @565:6e77d57423b6   3 hours spchu   
  Change version number to V3.2
  
  ------------------------------------------
  7/11/13
      
  @564:96f5de3319bc   5 days  spchu   
  minor correction for indexing
      
  ------------------------------------------
  7/9/13
  
  @563:c47bc11dc6e3   7 days  spchu   
  corrected routine so that cell dimensions are calculated for only the total gridblock dimensions in dpdp problems - not the primary and secondary volumes
      
  @562:9f6622b6ef51   7 days  spchu   
  added a new constant pressure condition that controls saturation by adding or taking out gas. Useful in 2 phase gas injection problems
      
  @561:5d6908ab19af   7 days  spchu   
  changed the calculation of initial density so that the denisity is calculated correctly for concentration dependent density when a tracer restart file is present
      
  @560:8d3777f8b556   7 days  spchu   
  update date in routine
  
  ------------------------------------------
  6/25/13
      
  @559:6c611354ce69   3 weeks spchu   
  Update depends file due to modified and new routines
      
  @558:1cfb29b3c1a8   3 weeks spchu   
  sets to zero all area coefficients that are generated or read in a stor file. This capability should be used with caution but is helpful in determining if negative area coefficients are causing stability issues.
      
  @557:7c839154f83c   3 weeks spchu   
  changed (only) where some variables are declared. Now more are declared in comco2.f
      
  @556:73570d5e1b63   3 weeks spchu   
  commented out ieos = 1 about line 587 (co2 tests passed!)
      
  @555:53ca43b3c385   3 weeks spchu   
  changed (only) where some variables are declared. Now more are declared in comco2.f
      
  @554:1eaf5767027b   3 weeks spchu   
  allowed possibility if move equation ordering
      
  @553:c7aebc804298   3 weeks spchu   
  allowed possibility if move equation ordering
      
  @552:80d50d9cfd6a   3 weeks spchu   
  added 1 comment line
      
  @551:6562c1cd1e0f   3 weeks spchu   
  changed calling sequence for area_length_calc.f and some code related to equation ordering
  coeff_management.f
      
  @550:157587a00ff4   3 weeks spchu   
  initialized new variable ich_pebi
      
  @549:f40c4599013f   3 weeks spchu   
  added option for another variable ordering
      
  @548:f2c38527b3bd   3 weeks spchu   
  set vatiable icoef_neg = 0
      
  @547:7c4814f31fb6   3 weeks spchu   
  release memory for new variable nvar_select() (will be used in next co2 version)
      
  @546:5691d83e5663   3 weeks spchu   
  added capability for removing negative coefficients (macro zneg)
      
  @545:6d323f184db6   3 weeks spchu   
  minor changes taht will be used in next version of co2 module.
      
  @544:ab31353bad97   3 weeks spchu   
  modified to allow different ordering to 3D tets (variable ich_pebi)
      
  @543:9949fc6bd736   3 weeks spchu   
  changed (only) where some variables are declared. Now more are declared in comco2.f
      
  @542:6134f1443b3d   3 weeks spchu   
  changed (only) where some variables are declared. Now more are declared in comco2.f
      
  @541:4832e90b0f19   3 weeks spchu   
  added code to correct ordering for 3D tets if necessary(see variable ich_pebi)
      
  @540:ff2b81f861d8   3 weeks spchu   
  minor addition thatwill be useful in next co2 version
      
  @539:1f78460ffa77   3 weeks spchu   
  corrected an array out of bounds (from i4 = nelm(kb) to i4 = nelm(kb+1), line 140)
      
  @538:da9272e8f01a   3 weeks spchu   
  set some secondary stress variables to zero if primary stress variables are read in
      
  @537:b7b9855a5fe5   3 weeks spchu   
  minor changes for identifying Nans
      
  @536:d8662dd1fd48   3 weeks spchu   
  added declaration for variables nvar_select(:) and max_variables
      
  @535:e3dab31dbad3   3 weeks spchu   
  changed (only) where some variables are declared. Now more are declared in comco2.f
      
  @534:d9bf436692f0   3 weeks spchu   
  moved many local co2-related variables to this module
  
  ------------------------------------------
  6/24/13
      
  @533:5fe05ca8c639   3 weeks spchu   
  added ich_pebi and other new variables
      
  @532:0fd849839fc9   3 weeks spchu   
  modified to make gdkm and anpe work
      
  @531:d84b29ef015f   3 weeks spchu   
  added allocation for variables nvar_select(:)
      
  ------------------------------------------
  6/12/13
  
  @530:d25e7d44e237   5 weeks spchu   
  Update error output statement to be consistent with main src directory
  
  ------------------------------------------
  5/9/13
      
  @529:429dae8c1082   2 months    spchu   
  Minor bug fix for array out of bound.
  
  ------------------------------------------
  4/10/13
      
  @528:996c8fc47d63   3 months    spchu   
  Add copyrigh disclosure to terminal when output to screen and to the output file.
      
  @527:3b344e3b8fde   3 months    spchu   
  Fixed error where the wrong unit number was being used for some output.
      
  @526:56c9b1c49be5   3 months    spchu   
  dded ability to read and write porosity to restart file
  Corrected allocation of stress variables for reading
  
  ------------------------------------------
  3/20/13
      
  @525:4a97f6f9e7bb   4 months    spchu   
  New file: Contains routines for calculating permeability multipliers as a function of in situ stress changes. Assumes material is ubiquitously fractured, with fractures existing in every orientation without bias.
  
  ------------------------------------------
  2/13/13
      
  @524:d38717e1e994   5 months    spchu   
  Change: reads in parameters associated with stress perm model 24.
  Purpose: for later use when doing calculations with stress perm model 24.
      
  @523:2570ad7fcd2e   5 months    spchu   
  Change: save initial pore pressure in str_pf0_perm.
  Purpose: for later calculation, permeability as a function of pressure change.
      
  @522:660b4371e7c2   5 months    spchu   
  Change: save initial values for permeability. Already implemented for models 2, 6, 21, 22, 31 - extend
  ed to 24.
  Purpose: new stress perm model formulated in terms of a multplier applied to initial permeability.
      
  @521:4ae6abf01d72   5 months    spchu   
  Change: add call for stressperm_24.
  Purpose: applies the stress perm model when called.
      
  @520:d884b077db77   5 months    spchu   
  Change: allocate new integer ipermstr24.
  Purpose: indicates whether stress perm model 24 applies to a particular node.
      
  @519:cfd3f9d4cc28   5 months    spchu   
  change: dependencies for stressperm_24.f
      
  @518:041a132d53d9   5 months    spchu   
  new file, Contains routines for calculating permeability multipliers as a function of in situ stress assuming a ubiquitously fractured media.
      
  @517:86140e8041f5   5 months    spchu   
  permission change, recommit
  
  ------------------------------------------
  1/31/13
      
  @516:50b71760055c   6 months    spchu   
  permission change causing recommit
      
  @515:cfa74c7fc5c1   6 months    spchu   
  fixed a bug in write_avs_node_mat.f: add missing specific heat value which didn't get write out
  for avsx mat_node file.
  
  ------------------------------------------
  12/20/12
      
  @514:f655030cbab1   7 months    spchu   
  updated PC version of the fehmn.f
      
  @513:62a628b27fcb   7 months    spchu   
  update PC folder fehmn.f
      
  @512:51780e147582   7 months    spchu   
  new routine, Stuart Walsh model of aperture
      
  @511:10bcdbfdfff3   7 months    spchu   
  new routine, replaces the routine geneq_flow_coupled. calling
  flow_flux_perm_residual instead of compute_flow_residual. made
  modifications to 'a' matrix cumulative
      
  @510:3bf57b05398e   7 months    spchu   
  new routine, replaces compute_flow_residual. changed definition of residual
      
  @509:7761929482b8   7 months    spchu   
  optional output for excess shear and young's modulus
      
  @508:a273006c790c   7 months    spchu   
  optional output for excess shear and young's modulus
      
  @507:be957009d26b   7 months    spchu   
  minor variable name changes
  added a flag for plasticity-coupled with permeability
  changed call to compute_permfactor to pass 'recompute_stress' flag
  call compute_permfactor_vonMises for both vonMises and Drucker-Prager
      
  @506:2a0df93dbe25   7 months    spchu   
  allocate variables
      
  @505:26f77eddc258   7 months    spchu   
  allocate variables
      
  @504:3937f2fb5574   7 months    spchu   
  modified permmodel=22 to allow use increamenatl shear
  modified permmodel=22 to allow porosity damage
      
  @503:0ae26e8e09e6   7 months    spchu   
  If strx_min <or= 0 model is interpreted to be that for local failure
  driven by pore pressure only.
      
  @502:3bf593ae51be   7 months    spchu   
  modified arrangement of conditional statements for ihms = -15, 16 and 17
  changed allocation of array itemp_term22
  modified input for permmodel=22 to allow use increamenatl shear
  modified input for permmodel=22 to allow porosity damage
  for young's modulus as a funciton of temperature, if using table entry make the first line of the input file optional
  for 'plastic' case, forcing the use of a single model for whole domain
      
  @501:6543886ec65c   7 months    spchu   
  save initial stresses if they need to be zerod out in stressperm_22
      
  @500:7aa6b0d17c62   7 months    spchu   
  added call for permmodel = 23 that uses Stuart Walsh model of aperture
      
  @499:afaa770e919e   7 months    spchu   
  permfactor initialization
      
  @498:450e06c5e119   7 months    spchu   
  RTD mixing model update
      
  @497:afd99ad9b86d   7 months    spchu   
  RTD mixing model updates
      
  @496:8201a581332c   7 months    spchu   
  changed call to geneq_flowflux_perm() instead of geneq_flow_coupled()
      
  @495:e66150f70bb5   7 months    spchu   
  minor changes to variable names
      
  @494:0c2351a163f2   7 months    spchu   
  added updating of converged strain when using 'fem' option
  moved to bnswer permeability updates related to stress
      
  @493:e2808ee5c447   7 months    spchu   
  created a new flag for using incremental shear in permmodel-22
  created a new flag for permmodel-23
  declare arrays for increamental shear in permmodel-22
      
  @492:99c86d730395   7 months    spchu   
  use permmodel 100 instead 22
  use only spm1f(1) = perx_m in computing permFactor
  print mean_accum_pstrain, fac,norm_per,perm_fac to 'iout'
      
  @491:f6235c29831d   7 months    spchu   
  minor changes to variable names
  changed the definition of 'average' pore pressure between nodes
      
  @490:da24eee5d1cc   7 months    spchu   
  changed to using properties of the model assigned to the current node
  instead of that asigned to node '1'
      
  @489:7abcb101a133   7 months    spchu   
  passing in 'recompute_stress' thru the parameter list instead of computing
  it within the subroutine
      
  @488:67007595fd44   7 months    spchu   
  minor changes to variable names
  include 'recoumpte_stress' in the call to compute_permfactor
      
  @487:411d95bfbae7   7 months    spchu   
  moved permeability updating from 'fehmn' to bnswer
  changed the flags for choosing nodal vs edge updating of permeability as a funciton of stress
      
  @486:fafe6a11ea71   7 months    spchu   
  Update depends file with new routines changes
  HG commit message. Lines beginning with 'HG:' are removed.
  
  ------------------------------------------
  11/06/12
      
  @485:1d7a30247689   8 months    spchu   
  Added tag Nov 6, 2012 for changeset 35175bc21ad1
      
  @484:35175bc21ad1   8 months    spchu   
  Added tag Nov 6, 2012 compile for changeset 520c6b2670dc
      
  @483:520c6b2670dc   8 months    spchu   
  added a more descriptive header to the 'rlp' output file
      
  @482:11be28c24c7c   8 months    spchu   
  commented out the last few lines, which were erroneously forcing cp=0 at sl=0
      
  @481:581e896ea284   8 months    spchu   
  fixed bug in model 19,which did not handle the 'co2 is gas' case correctly.
      
  @480:893bd39a5166   8 months    spchu   
  added a more descriptive header to the 'rlp' output file
      
  @479:29910c6cbc64   8 months    spchu   
  generalized tabular output for rlps to include both co2 gas /water and co2 liquid /water output.
  Improved tecplot column headings.
      
  @478:b488015c28dc   8 months    spchu   
  updated fehmn.f to be consistent with fehmn.f in manin src directory
      
  @477:2d8d30047846   8 months    spchu   
  updated PC version of the fehmn.f
      
  @476:5ced24ab106d   8 months    spchu   
  updated depends file with new development
  
  ------------------------------------------
  10/30/12
  
  Ticket #13 (Manual Change to ngas) created by stauffer
  The secret flag is -666 for PCO2 (first ngas input values) and it allows the user to force zero water vapor in the problem, so that if you have saturation of zero you can run an air only (no water) problem. (only used without a restart file).
  
  The code always uses the temp and pressure of a restart file to calculate the initial partial pressure of noncondensible gas as PCO2 = Ptotal - Pwater vapor, where Pwater vapor is a function of temperature assuming 100% humidity.
  
  ------------------------------------------
  10/29/12
      
  @475:cfd2a427625f   9 months    spchu   
  Modified zonenames and zonenums allocation so code works for all situation
      
  @474:57c1257e84d4   9 months    spchu   
  Made modification in connection with zone.f changes
  
  ------------------------------------------
  10/18/12
      
  @473:707ef4ff5ae7   9 months    spchu   
  updated depends file in corresponding with new code changes.
  
  ------------------------------------------
  10/16/12
      
  @472:41318be89a90   9 months    spchu   
  corrected logic for the water/co2-gas case, so that rl_l will be correctly calculated.
      
  @471:cfd72e764898   9 months    spchu   
  fixed a bug in loading the array 'cap_type'.
      
  @470:ced6ebd076de   9 months    spchu   
  added a few comment lines to better describe the code.
      
  @469:7c9238c5ed7b   9 months    spchu   
  generalized tabular output for rlps to include both co2 gas /water and co2 liquid /water output. Improved tecplot column headings.
      
  @468:8afac388670b   9 months    dharp   
  Added gfortran makefile; modified Makefile.depend to find header file even if building in another folder; added .hgignore so that hg ignores created .o and .mod files
  
  ------------------------------------------
  10/04/12
      
  @467:94bc838423a0   9 months    spchu   
  Added tag STABLE V3.1.1 sep27_2012 for changeset 6d431002e6db
  
  
  End hg/trac changesets     -----------------------------------------------
  
  