---
layout : page_macros
hero_height: is-hidden
---

<h1><code class="docutils literal notranslate"><span class="pre">rflo</span></code><a class="headerlink" href="#rflo" title="Permalink to this headline">¶</a></h1>
<p>No input is associated with this macro. This option is available for single continuum or double porosity/double permeability (dpdp) models only and is used in conjunction with transport models (trac, ptrk, mptr, or sptr macros). When this option is selected flow calculations are not done and it is assumed the flow field is at steady-state.</p>
<p>When invoked, the code will read mass flux values (kg/s) from the “.ini” file. Mass flux values are read for each connection of each node, starting with node 1. The mass flux values include sources and sinks for each node. Flow into a node is negative, and flow out of a node is positive. The mass flux values for the fracture domain are read first followed by the mass flux values in the matrix domain. The mass flux between fracture and matrix elements are read last. Flow from the fracture to the matrix is denoted as positive.</p>
<p>Mass flux values can be generated during a previous FEHM simulation (see rest macro) or may be generated by an alternate flow code (see Ho, 1997).</p>
<p>In version 2.30 an additional option was added to the rflo macro. If the macro is entered as “rflor” the flux values will be negated and a reversed flow field will be used for the transport simulation.</p>
  <div role="contentinfo">
    <p>
        
        &copy; Copyright 2018, Los Alamos National Laboratory

    </p>
  </div>